Proposal: working group for FreeBSD runtime (#133)
opencontainers/tob: proposals/wg-freebsd-runtime.md

## Purpose

With two working OCI runtimes for FreeBSD
([runj](https://github.com/samuelkarp/runj),
[ocijail](https://github.com/dfr/ocijail)) and several container engines
including containerd, podman and cri-o, there is a need to define a
FreeBSD-specific section of the runtime-spec to allow support for platform
features such as resource limits and fine-grained jail permissions. This will
help to ensure runtime compatibility and build a consensus for the best way to
support FreeBSD container runtimes.

## Scope

* Define a FreeBSD extension to the runtime-spec similar in scope to the
  existing extensions for linux, solaris, windows etc.
  * Identify platform features which should be part of the FreeBSD spec.
  * Build consensus on how to represent these features clearly.

## Out of Scope

* Identified out of scope items will be listed here as WG progresses.

## Intended work product

* Add config-freebsd.md to the runtime-spec repository along with suitable tests
  and support in specs-go.

> ## Proposed Owners

Reviewer: Can you add @dch as an owner here per https://github.com/opencontainers/tob/pull/133#issuecomment-1810418717?

* Doug Rabson (@dfr)

> * Samuel Karp (@samuelkarp)

Reviewer: Confirming that I am on board to be an owner.

# Working Group Proposal: FreeBSD Runtime

Proposal created from [OCI WG template](https://github.com/opencontainers/tob/blob/master/WG-TEMPLATE.md).

# FreeBSD Runtime OCI Working Group - Governance Charter

> This document describes the basic governance principles for the {WG NAME} Working Group (the “WG”).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
This document describes the basic governance principles for the FreeBSD Runtime Spec Working Group (the “WG”).
```

The WG operates as an OCI Working Group under the [Open Container Initiative (OCI) Charter](https://github.com/opencontainers/tob/blob/master/CHARTER.md), which describes the responsibilities of the OCI Technical Oversight Board (the "TOB”). The WG is established by the TOB as an OCI Working Group pursuant to the OCI Charter. Accordingly, the WG will operate in accordance with the OCI Charter and OCI's other policies and procedures, supplemented by the details below.

## Purpose

With two working OCI runtimes for FreeBSD
([runj](https://github.com/samuelkarp/runj),
[ocijail](https://github.com/dfr/ocijail)) and several container engines
including containerd, podman and cri-o, there is a need to define a
FreeBSD-specific section of the runtime-spec to allow support for platform
features such as resource limits and fine-grained jail permissions. This will
help to ensure runtime compatibility and build a consensus for the best way to
support FreeBSD container runtimes.

## Scope

* Define a FreeBSD extension to the runtime-spec similar in scope to the
  existing extensions for linux, solaris, windows etc.
  * Identify platform features which should be part of the FreeBSD spec.

>   * Build consensus on how to represent these features clearly.

Reviewer 2: nit: I'm not sure this line makes sense in the context of "scope", but we can keep it if you like.

Author: The intent here was there where there are multiple ways to represent a FreeBSD feature, we use the working group to resolve differences of opionion and settle on a single approach. Perhaps that doesn't need to be explcit in this document?

## Out of Scope

> * Identified out of scope items will be listed here as WG progresses.

Reviewer 2: I think this needs to be fleshed out during the WG proposal process. The purpose of the "out of scope" section is to outline what is off the table for the WG to address. This section changing after the WG has been set up seems unlikely to happen (it requires a 2/3 TOB vote and if the WG doesn't want to do something, they can just choose not to do it) and having nothing here feels like a blank cheque.

Possible things that could be in "out of scope":

 * Changes to non-FreeBSD platform-specific sections.
 * The addition of any new FreeBSD-specific features or support to the "generic" sections of `config.json`.

Of course, it's up to you whether you feel these are appropriate or not.

Reviewer: These are good suggestions.

Author: I like both suggestions, although I would like to list any 'pseudo' mount options such as tmpcopyup that we agree on in the Mounts section.

## Intended work product

* Add config-freebsd.md to the runtime-spec repository along with suitable tests
  and support in specs-go.

## Proposed Owners

* Doug Rabson (@dfr)
* Samuel Karp (@samuelkarp)
* Ed Maste (@emaste)
* Dave Cottlehuber (@dch)

## Related issues/PRs

https://github.com/samuelkarp/runj/issues/4
https://github.com/samuelkarp/runj/issues/8
https://github.com/samuelkarp/runj/issues/19
https://github.com/samuelkarp/runj/issues/20

> https://github.com/samuelkarp/runj/pull/11

Reviewer 3: Nit, consider making these a list for formatting.

## Purpose

With two working OCI runtimes for FreeBSD
([runj](https://github.com/samuelkarp/runj),
[ocijail](https://github.com/dfr/ocijail)) and several container engines
including containerd, podman and cri-o, there is a need to define a
FreeBSD-specific section of the runtime-spec to allow support for platform
features such as resource limits and fine-grained jail permissions. This will
help to ensure runtime compatibility and build a consensus for the best way to
support FreeBSD container runtimes.

## Scope

* Define a FreeBSD extension to the runtime-spec similar in scope to the
  existing extensions for linux, solaris, windows etc.
  * Identify platform features which should be part of the FreeBSD spec.
  * Build consensus on how to represent these features clearly.

## Out of Scope

* Changes to non-FreeBSD platform-specific sections.

> * Addition of any new FreeBSD-specific features to the generic sections of ```config.json``` unless those sections are already structured to include platform-specific information (such as Mounts).

Reviewer: nit: formatting

```suggestion
* Addition of any new FreeBSD-specific features to the generic sections of `config.json` unless those sections are already structured to include platform-specific information (such as Mounts).
```
